# id_expl0rer_0 Game Design

## Focus

The focus is to create a game for the Motorola Symbol/Zebra WT4090 Wearable Computer.
Why? because we can, it's a neat little device and it's a shame that the primary use is boring old warehouse work. I think it deserves some fun too.
The game may be ported, but the primary platform is WT4090.

#### Design constraints:
- Focus on the hardware features
- No sensor data (Physical activity recording is out without external hardware)
- No or unimportant multiplayer functionality
- Plays over a long period of time with minor input required from user


## Summary

id_expl0rer is a digital pet game for the WT4090 wearable computer.


## Gameplay

The game is played on a device on a screen that can collect wireless and barcode data.

#### Gameplay Ideas:
- Scan barcodes to generate pets
- Scan Wifi signals to generate explorable land
- Scan bluetooth signals to find items or opponents
- Persistent autosave. Allow user to close the game immediately without data loss.
- Lifecycles
  - Start as an egg
  - Hatch into a baby
  - Grow into a child
  - Grow into a teen
  - Grow into an adult
- Care
  - Pet needs to be fed
    - Special food can be aquired from collected data
  - Pet will make messes which need to be cleaned
  - Pet will require discipline 
    - Demanding food when not hungry
    - Refusing to eat or play when meters are empty
    - Messes in the wrong spot
  - Illness & Medicine
    - Pet could get sick periodicly
    - Messy, hunger, and low play could increase likelyhood of illness
    - Illness can be cured with medicine
    - Special medicine can be aquired through collected data
- Play
  - Pets can be taken on walks through spaces generated by local wireless signals.
  - Harvest items like food, medicine, and toys in generated land.
  - Battle system


## Target Device Considerations 

- WT4090
- Linux (For rapid development & Raspberry Pi)
- (Tenative) Nintendo 3DS (https://github.com/devkitPro/citro3d)

### Motorola Symbol WT4090

This wrist computer is the primary platform for the game, the design and programming will be focused on building to this device. 

#### Development Device Specs:

Model: WT4090-N2H1GER
OS: Windows CE 5.0 Pro
CPU: 520 MHz Intel XScale PXA270
- 32bit
- ARMv5TE
- 32Kbyte Instruction cache, 32KByte Data Cache
RAM: 128 MB
Flash: 128 MB
Wireless: 802.11a/b/g, Bluetooth 1.2
Display: 320 x 240 QVGA
App Development:
- EMDK for .NET https://www.zebra.com/us/en/support-downloads/software/developer-tools/emdk-for-net.html
- EMDK for C https://www.zebra.com/us/en/support-downloads/software/developer-tools/emdk-for-c.html

#### Device limitations consideration:

- No sensors, including IMU/Movement
- No touch screen
- No joysticks
- Up & Down are primary keys, Left & Right require the blue key to be pressed.

#### Device features:

- 10 key input + control keys
- 320 x 240 display (2.3 x 1.8inch) 133dpi
- Wifi A/B/G
- Ring scanner (Separate detachable component that goes on finger)
- Audio
- Bluetooth API
- Flash Storage (Check that it persists after a dead battery)
- ActiveSync

## Graphics

Take inspiration from Pokemon Emerald for the color pallette, scaling, overworld, and UI elements.

If we have closeup of the pets, we may want to generate 2 different scales for them. One larger and one smaller for the overworld.
(Might not get that advanced tho)


## Player Input

Character movement;
- Up 5, Left 7, Down 8, Right 9
- P1, P2, Enter for primary actions
- Other keys for shortcuts or changing tools or opening settings or something.



## Programming

The intent will be to write the software in a portable way, so it can be re-used on other devices. Symbol EMDK is available in both C & C# so target device features are natively available in three formats C, C#, and C++. I will choose C++ because it's Object Oriented and I won't need mono to develop for Linux.


### Conventions

- C++98
- Generic Interfaces for graphic drawing, scanning, and other device specific features.
- Limited or no frameworks, standard libray only. Except in platform specific parts.


### Development path
- [x] Create basic refrence project that draws a bitmap graphic to a window on the WT4090.
  - Use GWES/(GDI in CE 5)
- [x] Create basic refrence project that draws a bitmap graphic to Modern Linux.
  - Probably OpenGL/Mesa sample
- [x] Create basic refrence project that builds to Linux and WT4090 and shares some code.
- [x] Testing system
  - Cmake + Boost Test
- [ ] Sprite map loading
- [ ] Rendering from sprite map to scene
- [ ] Text rendering
- [ ] Dialog boxes
- [ ] Input
- [ ] Menus
- [ ] Animation
- [ ] Character movement
- [ ] Collision
- [ ] Generate environment from random seed
- [ ] Generate creature sprites from a random seed
- [ ] Time system
- [ ] Saving
- [ ] Dialog trees
- [ ] pet game logic
- [ ] Target device extensions for generating random seeds

### Structure

- App
  - id_expl0rer Game logic
  - Resources for the game
- Engine
  - generic components
    - rendering
      - Pixel
        - point of color
      - Sprite
        - Grouping of pixels with a width and height
      - Layer
        - Grouping of sprites in a 2D plane
      - Scene
        - grouping of ordered layers
      - Camera
        - width, height, and position of the viewport of a scene
  - players
    - wristterm
      - build for wt4000 wrist terminals
    - desktop
      - build for Linux/Windows desktops